The world economy or global economy is the economy of all humans in the world, referring to the global economic system, which includes all economic activities conducted both within and between nations, including production, consumption, economic management, work in general, financial transactions and trade of goods and services.

As of 2024, the following 19 countries or collectives have reached an economy of at least US$2 trillion by GDP in nominal or PPP terms: Brazil, Canada, China, Egypt, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Turkey, the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Union and the African Union.

Comparisons of national wealth are also frequently made based on purchasing power parity (PPP), to adjust for differences in the cost of living in different countries. Other metrics, nominal GDP per capita and a corresponding GDP (PPP) per capita are used for comparing national standard of living. 

Key Findings of World in 2050: 
1)The world economy could more than double in size by 2050, far outstripping population growth, due to continued technology-driven productivity improvements.
2)Emerging markets (E7) could grow around twice as fast as advanced economies (G7) on average.
3)As a result, six of the seven largest economies in the world are projected to be emerging economies in 2050 led by China (1st), India (2nd) and Indonesia (4th).


Until the middle of the 19th century, global output was dominated by China and India with Indian subcontinent being the world's largest economy from 1 C.E to 17 C.E. Waves of the Industrial Revolution in Western Europe and Northern America shifted the shares to the Western Hemisphere. 


As of 2023, the global economy is valued at approximately $100 trillion in nominal GDP, with the United States, China, and the European Union being the largest contributors. The U.S. economy, which alone accounts for about 24% of global GDP, continues to play a pivotal role, with a GDP of approximately $25 trillion. China, the world's second-largest economy, has a GDP of around $19 trillion, reflecting its rapid industrialization and expansion into global markets.

Popular Free trade agreements. 
North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA).
European Union (EU) Single Market. Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP). Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). European Free Trade Association (EFTA). Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Free Trade Area (AFTA). 


